[MUSIC]
One more constraint that we have to take
into account is grounded in the fact
that classifier is trained for
simulated signal versus real background.
And not all features
are perfectly simulated.
Monte Carlo and
real data have different distributions,
or as they say, they disagree.
Look at the plots below.
So if we train on classifier
that picks this difference,
and we get over-estimated efficiency for
the classifier.
So the approach to check for
such over-estimation is the following.
So we pick a control channel
of similar topology.
So for example,
in the case of tau to three muons,
it is D sub s into phi pi,
and phi goes to muons.
So you'll get three particles that
have to come through a single point.
And this channel is known pretty well,
and it can be extracted from the data.
And then we compare performance
of classifier on simulated and
real data samples using one of the metric.
For example, Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.
So we compare cdf's of one
distribution of the classifier output and
the second distribution classifier output.
And then we demand that the distance
to be below certain margin.
So the question is, how can we include
these criteria in the training loop?
One of the approach suggested by
Vicens Gaitan is called data doping.
So here is the scheme.
So we have Monte Carlo simulated
sample and real data, and
there are analysis channel and
control channel,
and there are labels ABCD for
those parts of data that we consider.
And we want our classifier to
discriminate A from B, but not C from D.
And the solution is pretty elegant.
So we add fraction of simulated signal C
to the training sample with background
label, and this approach is called doping.
So you can follow the link to
see presentation by Vicens to
get more details.
And this approach works pretty nicely.
I'll show you figures in next slide.
I just want to show additional idea
that can be applied to this case, so
it is grounded at the paper by Ulyanov and
Kaligs,
that this is called Gradient Reversal or
Domain Adaptation with Gradient Reversal.
So the neural network
consists of three parts.
The green one, it is a feature extractor
that builds meaningful
representation of the features.
And there are two ends or
two tails of this neural network.
The blue one is trying to discriminate
between signal and background.
And there is a red one that is learned
to discriminate between Monte Carlo and
real data.
So the loss function of this
red part is inversed when
it's sent down the green
head of this network.
So it means that this feature
extractor should build
as meaningful representation
as possible for the data,
such that you can discriminate
signal from background,
but you can not discriminate
Monte Carlo from real sample.
So on this slide we'll see how those two
techniques compare, so data doping and
domain adaption, so you see that
sensitivity or area on the ROC curve for
those classifiers are roughly the same.
But Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and
Cramer-von Mises test for
domain adaptation approach
are a little bit better.
It is due to the fact that for
the main adaptation you can tune learning
rates of those two heads, or actually
all those three parts of the network.
So you can get a tradeoff between
quality of the classifier and
quality in terms of domain adaptation.
So more details you can find
following the link below.
So we're coming to conclusion.
We have tipped strategies for
searching for the new physics approaches
that can be applied in some
of the collider experiments.
Discovery of anything beyond Standard
model is pretty tough challenge.
Those chess figures are pretty stubborn.
We have examined what kind
of constraints are used and
what are the essential approaches
used to deal with those.
And how machine learning
techniques could be used to cope
with imposed restrictions.
I hope the machine learning
techniques described here
are applicable to other contexts as well.
For example, ethical machine learning
theme is mostly about making
classifier predictions flat,
with regards to some ethical feature.
You will have a chance to play
with those on your own, and
I hope you will have some
fun with these as well.